# 3.1 Motivation and Problems

## In a typical implementation of a lexically-scoped language
such as Algol 60, C or Pascal,
a true stack (the typical stack provided by modern sequential computer architectures) is used to record call frames [Aho77, Ran64].
Each call frame contains a return address, variable bindings, a link to the previous frame,
and sometimes additional information.
The variable bindings are the actual parameters of the called routine and local variables used by the called routine.
A call frame is typically built by the calling routine, or caller.
The caller pushes the actual parameters on the stack, a link to its stack frame, the return address,
and jumps to the called routine, or callee.
The callee augments the frame by pushing values of local variables.
If the callee in turn calls another routine, it creates a new stack frame by pushing the actuals, frame link, and return address, and so on.
When the callee has reached the end of its code, it returns to the caller by resetting the frame link, removing the frame, and jumping to the saved return address.
In this manner, the state of each active call is recorded on the stack, and this state is destroyed once the call has been completed.

## Because of Scheme’s first-class closures and continuations, this structure is not sufficient.
- In particular, the closure and the saved bindings may be retained in the system even after the call that created the bindings has returned and its stack frame has been removed from the stack. 
- For this reason, it is not possible to store argument bindings in the stack frame.
- Instead, a heap-allocated environment is created to hold the actual parameters, and a pointer to this environment is placed in the call frame in their place.
    - When a closure is created, a pointer to this environment is placed in the closure object.
    - Moving the variable bindings into the heap saves the bindings from being overwritten as the stack shrinks and grows. With the call frames (minus variable bindings) still stored on the stack, the only additional overhead in performing a function call is the allocation of the environment.
 - However, first-class continuations require heap allocation of the call frames as well as the environment.
   - This is because the natural implementation of a continuation is to retain a pointer into the call stack.
   - Recall that a continuation is a closure that, when invoked, returns control to the point where the continuation was obtained.
   - The natural solution, then, is to maintain a linked list of heap-allocated stack frames. As the stack grows, a new frame is allocated in an unused portion of the heap so that the old stack frames remain intact.
- **The major problem with heap allocation of call frames and environments** is the overhead associated with the use of a heap.
    - This overhead includes **the direct cost of finding space in the heap when building the call frames and environments**, and **of following links instead of indexing a stack or frame pointer when accessing pieces of the frame or environment**.
    - The overhead also includes **the indirect cost of storage reclamation to deallocate and reuse stack frames and environments** and **the indirect cost of using excessive amounts of memory**.
    - Furthermore, use of the heap rather than a stack prevents the use of commonly available hardware or microcode-supported stack push, pop and index instructions and the use of function call and return instructions.