## 3.2.1 Environments
As a simple example, consider the following code containing nested lambda expressions:
```scheme
((lambda (a b)
    ((lambda (c)
        ((lambda (d e f) body) 3 4 5))
    2))
0 1)
```
the environment looks like:
```scheme
(((d e f) . (3 4 5))
  ((c) . (2))
  ((a b) . (0 1)))
```
The improvement described in Section 3.4 allows the variable ribs to be dropped from the environment structure; the environment becomes a list of value ribs.

## 3.2.2 Frames and the Control Stack
Frames are used to record the state of a pending computation while performing another.

They are most often created when one function calls another.

Call frames are used throughout this chapter and the next, and the particular format varies from model to model.

However, a call frame must always contain a "return address" or expression to be evaluated next, the environment or equivalent description of the active variable bindings, a pointer to the previous frame, and any other state required to continue the computation.

### In the heap-based system, call frames are simply lists that contain four fields
- The first field is **the expression field**.
  - This field determines the next expression to be evaluated.
  - It corresponds to a return address (saved program counter or instruction counter) in a standard computer architecture.
- The second field is **the environment field**.
  - This contains the currently active environment.
- The third field is **the rib field**.
  - During the evaluation of an application, this field contains a list of the arguments that have been evaluated so far.
- The fourth and final field holds **the next frame**.

The control stack in a heap-based system is the linked structure of the current frame, the previous frame, its previous frame, and so on.

**It resembles a linked list, where the fields of each frame are the elements and linking is internal through the "next frame" pointer.**

It is reasonable to structure the control stack so that the links are external to the frames as long as no extra storage overhead or overhead in following links is introduced.

## 3.2.3 Closures and Continuations
In the system of Section 3.4, a closure object is a list of three elements:
- **a function body**
- **an environment**
- **a list of variables**

For example, the closure returned by:
```scheme
((lambda (x)
  (lambda (y) (cons x y)))
’a)
```
would look something like:
```scheme
((cons x y) ((x) . (a)) (y))
```
except that the actual body would be a compiled version of (cons x y).

In the system of Section 3.5 a closure is a list of only two elements,

an environment and a function body.

**A continuation** is a closure that **contains enough information to continue a computation from a given point**. 

Essentially this means that it returns to the point where call/cc created it. The value it returns is its own argument. To realize this behavior in a heap-based system, the entire stack, i.e., the top frame, must be saved somehow. 

**A continuation is simply a special closure object containing a reference to the current frame (and hence the entire control stack)**.

Continuation closures have the same structure as normal closures, but with a body that, when executed, restores the saved stack and returns the continuation’s argument to the routine that created the continuation.